so I'm pleased to be joined by Professor
Jonathan van tan our deputy chief
medical officer and I'll start with the
daily update on the latest data on
corona virus two million six hundred and
eighty two thousand seven hundred and
sixteen tests for corona virus have now
been carried out in the UK and that
includes
a hundred thousand six hundred and
seventy eight tests carried out
yesterday two hundred and forty six
thousand four hundred and six people
have tested positive and that's an
increase of two thousand six hundred and
eighty-four cases since yesterday nine
thousand four hundred and eight people
are currently in hospital with corona
virus which is down thirteen percent
from this time last week and I'm very
sad to report that are those who have
tested positive for kovat 19 across all
settings thirty four thousand seven
hundred and ninety six have now died
that's an increase of 160 deaths on
yesterday and it goes that's saying we
offer our condolences to the friends and
family of every individual who's passed
away during this corona virus pandemic
this is a challenging time and as we
chart the right course over the weeks
and months ahead our overriding priority
remains to save lives whilst also at the
same time preserving livelihoods and
allowing people to return over time and
as and when it's safe to something
resembling more normal way of living so
on the 11th of May we set out a roadmap
to provide the information the advice
and the reassurance to businesses public
services to other organizations and to
employees and citizens up and down the
country I want to thank everyone who is
making the adjustments and engaging with
us in government to falter the path
ahead in a sure footing and sustainable
way now of course we recognize that
people have concerns that have questions
and we want to work together with them
and with everyone involved to provide
the necessary confidence and reassurance
in the next steps that we're poised to
make that approach is summarized in the
slides which if we could now have them
up on the screen please
and you'll see from site one and as
people will be aware we've established a
new covert alert system with five levels
each relating to the current level of
threat posed by the virus the alert
level is focused on the rate of
infection known as the r-value as well
as the total number of Corona Corona
virus cases overall and that alert level
helps us to determine the social
distancing measures that we need to
fight the virus so the lower the level
the fewer or the less restrictive the
measures that we'll need at any given
time and since the lockdown began at the
end of March
we've been at level four as indicated on
the slide and thanks to the hard work
and the huge sacrifices across the UK
and the progress that we've made as a
result of that particular in relation to
compliance with the social distancing
measures we're in the process of moving
from level 4 to level 3 on the slide and
we will do that through a number of very
careful and deliberate steps slide to
please so you'll see that last week the
Prime Minister set out the first of
three steps designed to carefully modify
the measures that had been put in place
and by gradually easing certain measures
we can begin to allow people to return
to something resemble resembling a more
normal way of life the choices we make
what we are asking the public to do what
we're asking them not to do are designed
to avoid the very real risk of a second
peak that would overwhelm the NHS and of
course risk turning a temporary economic
painful moment for the country into
permanent damage to the UK economy at
every step will closely monitor the
impact of easing restrictions and in
particular the impact on the spread of
the virus and it's only by collecting
and monitoring the data that there that
we will be able to take the next step
which is indicator 2 step 2 on the
slides and that will be no earlier than
June the 1st now I understand it's
natural for people to question why they
can't do one or other thing now why
certain distinctions have been made but
in reality you have to look at the
package of measures as a whole
mindful of the risks of the are level
and taking into account the various
different economic and social effects
combined so we've adopted a balanced
approach guided at all times by the
science and as I said the overriding
need to avoid a second peak that could
overwhelm the NHS of course it's true to
say that making any changes inherently
comes with some risk of spreading the
virus compared to simply staying at home
but it's also true that staying in
permanent lockdown is itself not
sustainable on health grounds or
economic grounds that's why we've only
used measures where it can be done with
the lowest risk possible and that's also
why we are watching the impact over
every change that we make very closely I
know the last couple of months have been
really tough for families for businesses
for everyone up and down the UK but it's
only by keeping to the plan sticking to
the rules even including when those
rules change that we will beat
coronavirus for good it's like three
please and that's why we've asked people
to stay alert to control the virus to
save lives
as we make changes to the measures in
place in England and adjust the
government's advice accordingly now for
the vast majority of people that still
means staying at home as much as
possible for those that can't work from
home they should return to work with the
arrangements in place to ensure that it
can be safely and responsibly done we've
also adjusted as you can see from the
slides the advice to allow people to
exercise more to visit public outdoor
spaces but staying two metres apart from
those outside their own household and as
ever people need to keep washing their
hands regularly and carrying out their
the hygiene measures that we've
advertised before our advice is to wear
a face covering when you're outside the
home in enclosed spaces and where it's
difficult to socially distance for
example if going to the shops or
traveling on public transport and if you
or anyone in your household develop
symptoms then you still all need to
self isolate now while we're asking the
public to do these things we in
government will keep ramping up the
effort that we need to see to get the UK
back to a more normal way of living and
with that in mind today the health
secretary announced that anyone in the
UK with Kovac 19 symptoms can now get a
test by booking online and I can also
report that we've recruited now over
21,000 contact tracers and call handlers
in England for the implementation of our
tests and trace program that program is
absolutely key in the next steps that we
need to take as a country can come
through this pandemic safely and
responsibly Jonathan if you'd like to
run us through the latest data Thank You
Secretary of State good afternoon
everybody I've just got a few data
slides to show you in the normal fashion
beginning with this one which shows you
Apple maps searches for directions so it
is confined to Apple users and it shows
the beginning of the period of lockdown
on the left on the 23rd of March and
what has happened to searches for
walking instructions driving
instructions and public transport from
that point until the very recent past
and you can see that there has been a
gradual but only gradual upward trend in
searches related to walking and driving
but for public transport this trend is
essentially flat and this is very much
in line with the guidance that the
government has issued about avoiding
public transport wherever possible
saving it for key workers and clearly
this is a trend that the public are
following I've shown you the two data
points on the right of the slide before
now that compared with last year 44% of
adults are working at home in the period
24th of April to the 3rd of May compared
with 12% at the same time last year and
that 80 percent of adults report they
have either left the home for permitted
reasons or not at all
in that period next slide please moving
on now to testing these data are correct
as that Oh 900 hours this morning and
they relate to tests processed and sent
out and the broad message is that we are
continuing to test at the rate of around
100,000 tests per day and that in total
almost 2.7 million tests have been used
since the crisis began and in terms of
confirmed cases the data as of this
morning were overnight for 2684 new
cases out of a grand total of diagnosed
cases of just under a quarter of a
million but what you can see if you look
to the bottom right hand corner of the
slide the green bars you can now see a
definite and sustained decline in new
confirmed cases which continues to be
encouraging next slide
so these are data I showed to you last
week updated of course data from
hospitals the top curve relates to
estimated admissions with kovat 19 in
England 678 is the latest figure down
from 701 on the 9th of May so again
steady declines and you can see that in
the top blue curve turning at the bottom
of the slide to the percentage of
critical care beds currently occupied by
kovat 19 patients this trend is also
consistently down across the four
nations and currently the figure runs at
19 percent next slide please
and then this slide also relates to
hospitals it relates to all of the UK
and it relates to the total number of
people in hospital with kovat 19 over 2
updated as of the 17th of May and what
you can see here is that everywhere the
numbers of patients in hospital with
kovat 19 is now in sustained decline
again very good news and the final slide
please
this is the the daily deaths data these
are deaths confirmed with a positive
test in the UK as of the 18th of May we
are reporting 160 deaths and a total of
three thirty four thousand seven hundred
and ninety-six with a positive test what
you can see and again it remains the
most important thing to look for is the
overall long-term trend as illustrated
by the orange line which is showing a
consistent and solid decline as the days
and weeks roll by thank you sectors day
John thanks very much we'll open it up
to questions and I think there's one
from David from Barry good afternoon
as we take the first sensitive steps
towards releasing the lockdown when will
the government outline the roadmap ahead
beyond the pandemic to ensure a swift
fiscal health and well-being recovery
and what has already been discussed and
decided well thank you very much
Danny from Barry I'm terribly sorry I
have David here Danny that we've already
published over 50 page roadmap to how we
rebuild after coronavirus and that
includes the three steps that I set out
on the slides the key thing and there
are different measures at different
stages relating to no earlier than the
first of June the phasing of opening of
reopening of primary schools different
issues for businesses at different times
so non-essential retail would be dealt
with at that point but whether it's the
1st of June or the 4th of July or any
subsequent steps we will only
take those decisions and take those
measures based on the scientific advice
that tells us we can responsibly do so
and I think the worst of all worlds
would be to trip up now and to stumble
when we've made the progress that the
deputy chief medical officer has set out
very clearly so we'll be guided we set
the roadmap but it's a conditional
roadmap and we will monitor very
carefully based on the changes that
we've made over the last week and see
what impact that has and we will assess
where the r8 is and the other
coronavirus data is before taking any
subsequent steps no earlier than the
first of June Jonathan would you add
anything to that no Tony thanks very
much I think there's one from James from
Wittering James asks by text is the
government preparing for a second wave
on PPE ventilators testing etc so all
the issues of the first wave won't
happen again and well I'll let the
deputy chief medical officer comment but
one of the key things we've said all
along is first of all that we're going
to be very mindful to avoid a second way
we want to keep the are level down the
rate of transmission down to avoid that
and we do not want and we will not
sanction measures that where we fear or
there's a risk that they would take us
above our one at the same time when we
set out our five tests for easing the
lockdown they and they still in large
part and apply one of the key things
that we wouldn't take measures until
we're absolutely convergent that we've
got all of the capacity we need in the
NHS one of the things that we've done
and it has been effective is we made
sure that every at every step the NHS
has not been overwhelmed and in
particular the critical care capacity
that Jonathan showed on the slides has
not been overwhelmed and it's not just
good enough to do that day by day we
want to make sure that with any steps we
take in the future that that remains the
case Jonathan would you add to that
thank thank you Secretary of State so I
would add that we're absolutely not
hoping hoping not to have a second wave
and that is one of the reasons why we
are being so careful
about unlocking social distancing one
piece at a time
because we absolutely don't want this to
get out of control again however is it
right and proper to prepare for
emergencies is it right and proper to
put ourselves in a good position to be
able to deal with an upsurge of cases
absolutely and let me emphasize a couple
of things here one is that maybe people
are just hoping and praying that this
virus will just go away as indeed I hope
and pray will but the reality is that
certainly until we get a vaccine and
only if we get a vaccine that is really
capable of suppressing disease levels
will we ever be what we would call kind
of out of this and so from that
perspective we may have to live and
learn to live with this virus in the
long term and certainly for many months
to come if not several years a vaccine
may change that but we can't be sure we
will get a vaccine the other thing to
say is that this virus is a new virus we
don't fully understand it we don't
understand something called seasonality
and one of the things that's very clear
for example with flu viruses is that
they come in our cold winters and the
levels of transmission and circulation
decline over the summer months now the
data we have on other corona viruses
we've looked at very carefully and it is
not clear that these are these corona
viruses are a seasonal as influenza but
there may be an element of seasonality
and it may well be that the autumn and
winter conditions provide a better
environment for the virus to then do its
work again so we have to be very
cautious about that and plan for these
kind of healthcare surges that we hope
we don't need but we want to be ready
for them if they happen
very good and thank you James for your
question we'll open it up to the media
now and I think we've got Fergus Walsh
first from the BBC Focus over to you
thank you you've just added loss of
taste and smell as a key symptom for
coronavirus France advised people back
in March that if they lost taste or
smell that they should self isolate
hasn't the UK being very slow to act
Jonathan that's probably why for you is
yes thank you no thank you Fergus we've
been very careful about looking at the
data on a nas Mia and looking to see if
adding it to the case definition would
change something in terms of what we
could practically do now I do understand
a now you're absolutely right that a nas
mia has been recognized for some time
now as a possible symptom of kovat 19
but if you unpick that a bit further one
of the first questions is how often does
a nas mia come really early in the
illness that's the first question versus
coming later on in the illness when
there are many other symptoms that are
evident particularly cough and fever
which are absolutely the most prominent
the next point is how often does a nas
Mia occur on its own in the absence of
other symptoms and the answer seems to
be very rarely indeed and so from that
perspective what we've had to do is go
through all of the possible symptoms of
kovat 19 and you know other than fever
and cough the w-h-o list includes
tiredness aches and pains sore throat
diarrhea conjunctivitis headache skin
rash even loss of speech your movement
is something that the w-h-o put on there
so what we have had to do is do some
very careful analysis
behind the scenes to try and work out
when looking at the whole range of
symptoms again which of those it might
be useful or important to add in terms
of picking patients up and improving the
very simple and easy to remember symptom
cluster we had already of cough and
fever and that's why we have taken our
time in this country because we wanted
to do that again painstaking and very
careful analysis before we jump to any
conclusions and even if it was bond or
obvious that a nas Mia was part of this
we wanted to be sure that adding it to
cough and fever as opposed to just
listing it adding it into formally into
our definition was the right thing to do
and based on advice from nerve tag we
have made that decision Fergus did you
want to come back on anything professor
to inspector estimates that between a
hundred and two hundred thousand cases
of coded nineteen may be missed by the
failure to include this earlier how many
how many cases of Kobe 19 do you think
have been missed as a result of not
including this earlier on I mean I don't
have those figures to my fingertips I'm
not sure anyone's other than professor
spectra has tried to make those kind of
estimates what I can tell you is that
from the public health England data set
called the FF 100 the first few hundred
cases there are actually twenty two
hundred and twenty-nine cases in there
all laboratory-confirmed covered all of
whom have been studied in considerable
detail and 0.44% reported a nas mia on
its own as a symptom so the point about
a nas Mia is it that it doesn't always
come as the first symptom and even if it
does it is followed by the cough the
fever and many of the other symptoms
that I've talked about
referring to the w-h-o definition so you
don't miss those cases and the important
thing was to work out if this would add
any sensitivity to the diagnostic
cluster we were using and the answer is
it makes a small very small difference
and we have therefore decided to do it
thanks Fergus next up Beth Rigby from
Sky thank you our first sexual state
you're asked in people to use their
common sense as we come out of lockdown
and you also ask you many people to go
back to work or soon send their children
back to school but isn't it common sense
for people to wait until you have that
track and trace program properly in
place before they go back to work or
before they send their kids to school
otherwise aren't you asking people to
make something of a leap of faith and
professor van Tom the honor rate last
week was said to be naught point 7 to 1
parents and teachers are obviously
anxious about transmission in primary
schools do you expect there to be some
level of Kovach 19 transmission in
schools once children return and how do
you expect that to impact the on number
thanks Beth well first of all we're
making good progress with the test track
and tracing regime as the health sector
is announced today we've got 21,000
traces the level of testing is above a
hundred thousand we've got 60 thousand
downloads of the app on the Isle of
Wight pilot so we're making good
progress on on that in terms of the
measures we've taken right at this stage
as you will know it's step one we've
been pretty cautious and that is
precisely because we want to make sure
footed and sustainable steps when we
come to the latest steps and as and when
the testing capacity and the tracing
capacity is up and running we'll be able
to it'll give us more room for maneuver
and more flexibility so we're making
very sure that we're taking the right
steps at the right moment and obviously
that the testing and the tracing is
going to be a key component particularly
medium to longer term as we come through
the coronavirus Jonathan yes thank you
that I'm gonna chop your question into
four bits and answer it in bits if
that's all right so the first point is
about disease in children and we are
absolutely aware of a small number of
cases in children associated with a
disease that looks a bit like Kawasaki
syndrome looks a bit like toxic shock
syndrome but these are very very very
small numbers compared with the vast
majority of confirmed infections and
children which are really extremely mild
compared to the illness suffered by
adults so we do think to conclude we
think children experience mild disease
the next question is do children have a
higher infection rate or a lower
infection rate than adults and you can
gain those data from serology studies
studies of the blood to look for
antibodies and the emerging data from
around the world on the whole suggests
that the rate of infection in children
is about the same as in adults possibly
a little lower in the younger aged
children but they get this much more
mild disease on the whole the next
question then is can children transmit
the virus to adults and here we have to
acknowledge that we're working with a
new virus where the data are pretty
sparse at the moment but the experts
have already had a look at this and
formed a conclusion that unlike
influenza like flu where we are very
clear that children derive transmission
in the community to adults it really
does not seem to be the same kind of
signal with kovat 19 that children are
not these kind of big high output
transmitters as they are with flu and
then to your final point about getting
children back to school
and is that safe in terms of the
r-nought all of the measures that are
being considered always run against the
test case of can we keep control of the
our naught and if the answer is yes then
it will be considered if the answer is
it's going to risk pushing the R naught
higher than 1 then our science advice to
ministers will always be no we advise
against it as simple as that and of
course this is a difficult balancing act
you're absolutely right because there
are significant welfare and well-being
issues for children who are out of
school for months and months on end so
it's delicate and difficult and accept
that if you want to come back on any of
that just quickly on the you've done a
great job in recruiting people to track
and trace but in terms of the app just
to be clear to parents out there will
the app be ready by June the 1st when
you are some of us to send their kids
back to school because parents might
want that reassurance well we'll again
all of these steps are a balanced
assessment not just of one or other
element but particularly the are level
and the in the prevalence of coronavirus
in terms of the app it's still our
attention to to roll it out across the
country for everyone to use in there in
the weeks ahead I can't be any more
precise at this stage but as I said
before we're making pretty good progress
with it but thanks very much I'll go to
Gary Gibbon next channel 4 thank you
very much it sounds a bit as though the
progress on the Apple slipped a bit we
were told to expect it to be rolled out
in the middle of May you're saying you
can't say any more than that it'll be in
the weeks ahead
given that the app and the testing to
two key ingredients are giving people
reassurance about going back to where
we're going to the school and the rest
of it are you're not worried by that and
also by the fact that some of these
tests seem to be coming back really
rather late like sometimes sort of 5
days or something like that you've
missed the opportunity potentially it's
quarantine so well look we're learning
as you it's perfect
reasonable talk to point out we're
learning all the way as we go through
this pandemic and not just on the
scientific side but on the innovation
that we need to get a grip on it and
control the virus we are making good
progress on the testing and on the
tracing and on the pilot in the Isle of
Wight in relation to the app and we're
going to make sure and we've always said
of course the the steps that we might
take that's what what is stepped to on
the slides that I just showed that would
only ever be taken at the earliest on
the force first of June so we've not
committed ourselves to anything at this
point in time what we're doing is giving
a road map with maximum conditionality
to make sure both in terms of the
measures that we've taken at step one
and any subsequent measures we're
confident that we can take further
sure-footed steps feel free come back if
you may I because can you guide us maybe
the professor can to what extent was the
modeling on which the easing is based
based on a fully functioning app and a
testing process that was bringing back
results before 48 hours yeah thank you
yes so I want to be clear that the app
is one part of the test and trace system
the rest of it is much more of the tried
and tested methodology used by public
health England for this and for many
other diseases and the mainstay will
always be the public health England
system as evidenced by the twenty one
and a half thousand recruits one-third
of whom our doctors our nurses to help
with that so that's the mainstay of it
testing is very much testing for action
we don't do it you know for the hell of
it it informs action for people either
to be reassured that they have a
negative result and they don't need to
go into self isolation or that they
absolutely must and it will inform
contact tracing as part of test and
trace it absolutely will and from that
perspective
you are absolutely right that we need to
do it bigger and faster and as fast as
we can and we are sending a clear
message as scientists that it needs to
be fast and we have to work as hard as
we can to improve the timeliness of the
testing system as we go along
thanks Karen of course the reality is
that further along it is the more
expanded seas the more flexibility we'll
have so it's not a binary choice but but
it's some proceeding at Pace Tom Newton
Dunne from the Sun Factory
thank you very much about the resolution
table today which Britain is a signatory
to it calls for a review into the
international response to the pandemic
it doesn't mention anything about
getting to the bottom of the origin of
it it doesn't mention China by name at
all are you letting China off the hook
here or do you a want an independent
inquiry after a like Australia does and
b-1s inquiry to get to the bottom of the
origin of the pandemic and a question
for mr. van town as well please Jonathan
you're credibly honest way as usual can
you update us on how far sages got
investigating the the double bubble
coach oiling your two households in
particular for the over 70s should they
hold out any hope of you be able to join
them with their children or
grandchildren or is that unrealistic at
this stage perhaps now would be a good
time to manage their expectations
because they're running pretty high Tom
thanks very much well certainly at the
international level we've been very
clear and we work with all of our
partners including Australia and many
others because we want this review to
command the strongest support because
it's more likely to be effective if it
does it's got to be obviously it's going
to be international it's got to be
credible which means it's independent
and impartial and it's got to be able to
get to the bottom of how it happened how
the outbreak happened and spread and
critically the lessons that we can learn
from future for future pandemics yes so
thank you for the question my mum lives
on her own she hasn't seen her grand
children for many months so I appreciate
how difficult and stressful this really
is for the kind of categories of people
that you mention out there and it is
hurting and you know it is difficult
saij is looking at this at the moment
the matter is under review it would not
be right and proper for me to comment
further at this stage and therefore with
respect I won't come back on any of that
understanding reasoning there perhaps
you could offer a bit more guns on
camping which you did currently off to
look into last week
if Brits can't go on holiday any time
soon maybe can they go camping outdoors
not Co joining with anybody safely yes
I've had quite a lot of correspondence
about that since my appearances last
week as you'd imagine and I stand ready
to give advice to the government on all
of those complex issues as and when it
asks for it very good thanks Tom
Kate Proctor from the garden I thank you
and for the Foreign Secretary and
thousands of co-workers from outside the
European Economic Area are risking their
lives working in Britain in care homes
in the corona virus pandemic these same
carriers are being asked to pay 625
pounds to use the NHS in many cases this
is the same service in which they work
for well the government exempts migrant
care workers from this NHS charge or
will they scrap it altogether and
Jonathan Phantom I wanted to ask what
you thought the scientific justification
is for introducing a quarantine period
now as opposed to doing it earlier on in
March or April particularly considering
the infection rates for other countries
in Europe is particularly low thanks
very much well the there's no current
plans to make the change that you've
described but we do want I know that
Home Secretary's very keen to make sure
we've got a sensitive immigration system
for all those exceptional front
I work as whether it's in care homes or
in the NHS and we recognize that there
are lot of people who come from abroad
that do those jobs and make a huge and
valuable and valued contribution to this
country yes so on the question of
quarantine why didn't we do it
previously and we're talking subject to
ministerial announcements about maybe
doing it now
well my recollection is we did do it
before that on the 29th of February and
then I think on the 30th of February we
announced that travelers returning from
the hot spot of Wuhan and then who Bay
province respectively when they arrived
in the UK most self isolate at home for
14 days and then I believe and you've
caught me on the hop here I'm afraid
I think it was about four weeks later we
had we had made further advise that
people returning from northern Italy
initially it was long body province then
it became northern Italy and South Korea
and Iran I think we asked them also on
arrival in the UK to go home and
quarantine self isolate at home for 14
days that being the potential maximum
incubation period of this virus so I
think we have done it before we did it
for at a time when the virus activity
was concentrated into international
hotspots such as who Bay Province South
Korea northern Italy we're now in a very
different world where this virus has
spread completely internationally and we
are lucky in that we are driving down
our case rate to the point where we are
becoming an area of low incidence of
kovat 19 and at that point then it
becomes more sensible to think about
what the contribution of travelers from
abroad might be so that's I hope kind of
knits it all together for you but
I haven't got the precise dates on some
of the previous quarantine but we did it
okay we'd like to follow follow up on
any of that oh yeah thank you for that
explanation and that was very helpful
and but to the foreign secretary again
you said that you want to have a
sympathetic immigration system I don't
understand what sympathetic about a six
hundred and twenty five pound NHS charge
for carries and you have made it exempt
for other health workers so why not
carries well we keep it these things
constantly under review but that's a
provision that applies to all workers
subject the definitions coming into this
country we're doing lots of other things
to support their care sector including
the action plan for the sector that was
launched a few weeks ago and if your
concern is having the people to work in
the care sector of course we put extra
money in an extra recruitment program to
make sure we're able to do that
so we'll keep it under review and I
understand the point cake you're making
and it's absolutely right to pay tribute
to the incredible work that so many do
and in fairness it's not just me and HS
since and so many other ways we also do
have a set of immigration controls in
place and and how they apply in Kovac in
the ecovillage pandemic is something we
keep carefully under review thank you
very much Kate and lastly I think we've
got Jess hemming from the North Wales
Daily Post and BBC Wales good evening
what do you say to claims the decision
to relax lockdown in England is
undermining efforts to contain the virus
in North Wales where a full lockdown
remains cases are increasing but
tourists are still heading over the
border in large numbers and I'd be
interested to know what mr. van tan
thinks about the divergence between the
English and Welsh scientific approaches
well chairs to start with we've actually
done a pretty good job all nations in
the UK of adhering to the social
distancing measures and getting the
instance in the eye level down that was
one of the successful elements of the
strategy we've had I have to say very
good collaboration with the devolved
administration's I've sat in on Cobra
meetings where the notwithstanding the
different either perspectives or
slightly different considerations which
will apply in different nations of the
UK we've actually had
uk-wide approached equally we've we
recognized that given the devolve
competence isn't given the level of
coronavirus in different parts of the UK
there may be different speeds at which
the different nations proceed or even at
regional level and in answer your
question about people from the UK going
over to Wales we've been out from
England going to Wales we've been very
clear anyone that wants to travel say
from England to Wales or where any other
part of the United Kingdom needs to be
very mindful of the regulations that the
relevant devolved administration will
have in place Jonathan would you know
yes answer my better question
so decisions that are made are always a
complex blend of science politics and
practicality and I think we have to
recognize the right at different parts
of the UK to make their own decisions
what I would be far more worried about
is if there was a separate stream of
science driving decisions in Wales
Scotland Northern Ireland from England
but saij absolutely is a committee that
advises the whole of the nation in that
sense one of the difficulties with all
of these data and working out what's
happening is that as you chop the UK
into smaller and smaller regions you
don't have as much region specific data
to work with and the granularity of the
picture down at regional level starts to
fade so I think some differences in
timing and so forth are to be understood
yes would you like to come back on any
about yeah would going back to what you
saying about cooperation with the with
the nations Wells First Minister mark
Draper had recently complained that
Welsh government hadn't had a
conversation with the UK government for
a week is the UK government simply
leaving develop nations to their own
fates and if not what assistance is
being provided well I think that's right
at all if you look at the funding that's
been provided to all the devolved
administration's including the world
executive I don't think it's true
if you look at the amount of PPE that
we've helped deliver for nurses and and
and others on the frontline I don't know
the last time that any one of the UK
government spoke to the Welsh executive
but what I would say is that this
challenge of as far as we possibly can
steering a uk-wide approach whilst also
recognizing the devolved competencies
and the fact that judgments and the
state of the virus will be different in
different geographic parts the UK is not
unique to the UK if you look at Italy
that they've experienced that if you
look at the I spoke to my German
opposite number recently and he was
explaining the different approaches
taken in the different lander states
Germany it's been true in in France
they've had different geographic
variations and variables that play so
but will work the best and certainly as
best we can and certainly there is a
huge repository of goodwill I think that
has been built up on both sides and
certainly from the UK government's point
of view want to continue that going
forward please Jonathan that I had
something that on the medical side and
I'm only talking about the medical side
I don't recognize the position that
you've outlined my last conversation
with the Welsh medical director in
teleconference was last late last week
and my first one with him will I expect
be this evening and I know that our
chief medical officer for England is in
pretty much daily contact with all of
the devolved administration chief
medical officers and that on very many
things they act as the for CMOS together
yes thanks very much that thanks
everyone that brings to a close
today's Downing Street press conference
thank you very much Jonathan thank you
there we go that's the latest Downing
Street briefing on coronavirus that was
Dominic Rob the Foreign Secretary and
professor Jonathan and Tom the deputy
chief medical officer for England so
let's just run you through the main
points that came out of that briefing
which has just finished and the Foreign
Secretary did confirm they've been a
further 160 deaths related to
coronavirus
over the last day and that brings a
total number of UK deaths from
coronavirus in all settings to thirty
four thousand seven hundred and
ninety-six Dominic Rob also announced
the daily testing figure in the twenty
four hour period up to 9 a.m. on Monday
one hundred thousand six hundred and
seventy-eight tests were carried out or
dispatched 67 thousand four hundred and
nine people were actually tested mr. Rob
warned that it is not sustainable to
keep the lockdown in place permanently
but he said that the government is
monitoring the changes it's making and
easing measures only where that can be
done with the lowest risk possible and
we also heard from Professor phantom the
deputy chief medical officer for England
he said that also man winter conditions
could well provide a better environment
for the virus and that we may have to
learn to live with it in the long term
that's of course if a vaccine isn't
discovered and manufactured in the next
few months
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC decoder UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News